# CarND-Path-Planning-Project
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

## Introduction

The goal of this project is to build a path planner that creates smooth, safe trajectories for the car in the simulator to follow along a 3 lane highway with traffic. The highway track has other vehicles, all going different speeds, but approximately obeying the 50 MPH speed limit.

The car should try to go as close as possible to the 50 MPH speed limit, which means passing slower traffic when possible, note that other cars will try to change lanes too.The car should avoid hitting other cars at all cost as well as driving inside of the marked road lanes at all times, unless going from one lane to another. The car should be able to make one complete loop around the 6946m highway. Since the car is trying to go 50 MPH, it should take a little over 5 minutes to complete 1 loop. Also the car should not experience total acceleration over 10 m/s^2 and jerk that is greater than 10 m/s^3.

The car in the simulator transmits its location, along with its sensor fusion data, which estimates the location of all the vehicles on the same side of the road.There is also a given sparse map list of waypoints around the highway.

In the simulator, the car uses a perfect controller and will visit every (x,y) point it recieves in the list every .02 seconds. The units for the (x,y) points are in meters and the spacing of the points determines the speed of the car. The vector going from a point to the next point in the list dictates the angle of the car. 

## Implementation

### Generate Point Paths

To simlify the following calculation, I use Frenet coordinates (s, d) instead of global XY coordinates.

The Main idea for generating waypoints lists is to add some new points to the previous list with processed points removed, so as to keep number of waypoints in an output list to be 100 all the time. 

These new points are generated by an intepolating method with "spline.h". In each timestep, the last two point of the previous waypoints list is considered as two of reference points. If there is no previous list(at the beginning), then use current car position and yaw angle to build two reference points, which make the path tangent to the car. Start at the last one of these two reference points, considering the projected best lane, three points that spaced evenly 30m on Frenet map are added to reference points. Then these five reference points are used to generate a spline curve. Then the spline curve is break up into points according to the car reference velocity, and these spline points are used to fill waypoint lists.

There are some risks when apply the approach in the real world, since the car will follow the projected waypoint and can not react to those sudden changes, such as the vehicle ahead suddenly changeing lane. However, the approach can let the car keep moving as projected when there is some latency between the simulator and path planner, and works fine in the simulator. To eliminate these risks, a new function is needed to create a new waypoint list from scratch as soon as the sensor detect some sudden changes.  

### Choose Reference Velocity 

The default and maximum reference velocity are set to 49.5 mph, so as to make sure the car can run as fast as possible within the speed limit (50 mph). The maximum deceleration and acceleration is 5 m/s^2.

The main idea is when the car does not intend to change lane, the car will follow the vehicle ahead that is not too far nor too close at the similar speed. If the car get too close to the vehicle ahead, it will decelerate at maximum rate. In other case, the car will try to get the maximum velocity at maximum acceleration. Here is the detail.

In each timestep, I consider the end point of previous waypoint as reference point, and project s value of the vehicle ahead in the same lane when the car get to the end point of the previous path. If the projected distance bewteen the project s value and the reference point is less than warning distance (40m) and there is not lane changing intention for the car, the car will decelerate at a rate that is proportional to the projected distance changing rate until the projected distance changing rate become negative. If the projected distance become less than minimum gap (20m), the car will decelerate at maximum rate. In other case, the car will try to get the maximum velocity at maximum acceleration.

### Determine Best lane

The main idea is to calculate a cost funtion when the car is projected to get in the warning distance(40m) to the vehicle ahead in the future, and consider the lane with lowest cost as the best lane, which is used in the path generation mentioned above.

Before calculate cost function, a simple finite state machine is used to decide successor lanes. Therer are three items in cost function: collision buffer cost, lane changing cost and inefficiency cost. Each item is attached with a weight. Collision buffer cost is related to the distance to the closest vehicle in the candidate lane and the preset buffer distance (10m). Lane changing cost is zero when the candidate lane is same as the current lane, and 1 otherwise. Ineffiency cost is related to reference velocity and the minimum traffic speed in the candidate lane.

Besides, to avoid large lateral jerk, the car can not continuously changing lanes. 

## Simulator.
You can download the Term3 Simulator which contains the Path Planning Project from the [releases tab (https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases/tag/T3_v1.2).

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./path_planning`.

### The map of the highway is in data/highway_map.txt

Each waypoint in the list contains  [x,y,s,dx,dy] values. x and y are the waypoint's map coordinate position, the s value is the distance along the road to get to that waypoint in meters, the dx and dy values define the unit normal vector pointing outward of the highway loop.

The highway's waypoints loop around so the frenet s value, distance along the road, goes from 0 to 6945.554.

### Here is the data provided from the Simulator to the C++ Program

#### Main car's localization Data (No Noise)

["x"] The car's x position in map coordinates

["y"] The car's y position in map coordinates

["s"] The car's s position in frenet coordinates

["d"] The car's d position in frenet coordinates

["yaw"] The car's yaw angle in the map

["speed"] The car's speed in MPH

#### Previous path data given to the Planner

//Note: Return the previous list but with processed points removed, can be a nice tool to show how far along
the path has processed since last time. 

["previous_path_x"] The previous list of x points previously given to the simulator

["previous_path_y"] The previous list of y points previously given to the simulator

#### Previous path's end s and d values 

["end_path_s"] The previous list's last point's frenet s value

["end_path_d"] The previous list's last point's frenet d value

#### Sensor Fusion Data, a list of all other car's attributes on the same side of the road. (No Noise)

["sensor_fusion"] A 2d vector of cars and then that car's [car's unique ID, car's x position in map coordinates, car's y position in map coordinates, car's x velocity in m/s, car's y velocity in m/s, car's s position in frenet coordinates, car's d position in frenet coordinates. 

## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
  * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets)
  * Run either `install-mac.sh` or `install-ubuntu.sh`.
  * If you install from source, checkout to commit `e94b6e1`, i.e.
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets 
    cd uWebSockets
    git checkout e94b6e1
    ```
